---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

**Background on the DREAM Program**

The goal of the Distributed REsearch Apprenticeships for Master's (DREAM) experience is to provide students with research experience to help them better understand what goes into research, what doing a phD would be like, and how choices around whether or not to do research might affect their options moving forward. The program also aims to let students gain specific research skills that they could apply in their own research endeavors.

**Personal Background**

I come from a research background through my undergraduate experiences. As a geosciences student at Wellesley, I participated in multiple semester long research projects for classes and also worked in our sedimentology lab which included presenting a paper of my own research at the North East Geological Society of America. It was actually doing this research which inspired me to apply for the NEU Align Masters program.  

Using python, matlab, and R, I created the graphs and figures needed for our research paper and crunched our data analysis from the lab testing results. This setting inspired me to seek out further computer science skills which can then be applied towards tasks which excite and interest me such as environmental research.

**Project scope and initial plan**

Our research project is on data visualization for irresponsible artificial intelligence data. This means that we research and improve the best practices for visualizing this kind of data, with domain experts being our main audience. We are working in observable notebook with d3 and Vega-Lite.

We have a specific dataset we are working with, that has been curated from various articles about irresponsible uses of AI. Part of our work will be organizing, tagging, and curating the the data set further. 

Though I do have data visualization experience in so far as I’ve generated lots of graphs for various projects, I have never done it either in a research setting or in a space where the user end of the visualizations are interactive. These additional features and goals are very exciting.

**Program Goals and Outlook**

This is a skill set I can imagine using in the future which is always encouraging when tackling technical challenges. As I do not yet have research experience within the computer science field, this is a great first opportunity to see what type of work will be a good fit for me in the future. Since I have the benefit of working on this project with someone I have previous group experience with, I’m additionally excited for the collaborative aspects of this work.

The introduction to new sets of technical skills is always a hurdle to overcome on new projects, but when the outcome is something of personal interest, these are welcome challenges. This combined with a research advisor whose work is interesting and whose projects are in relevant fields of studies makes for a promising start to a new experience.
