---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

**Scrum Methodology and Approach**

For this summer research, our advisor is first having all of us, regardless of the project we are working on or our backgrounds, first read JJ Sutherland's "SCRUM: The Art of Doing Twice the Work in Half the Time". This Agile methodology is of course blooming in popularity, and as someone who has deep appreciation for clearly communicative and also flexible work setups, I was very excited to finally get around to reading this book. Our summer research small group will emulate this workflow.

The steps to practically apply scrum, as laid out in the book's appendix:
1. Pick a product owner (this person is responsible for managing the backlog, organizing tasks into stories and epics, and prioritizing them)
2. Pick a team (best team sizes being 3-9 people)
3. Pick a scrum master (this person is responsible for making sure the scrum principles are correctly followed: running the 15 minute standups, keeping them short, running the retrospective at the end of the sprint, and then the sprint planning at the beginning as well.)
4. Create and prioritize the product backlog (listing out everything that needs to be done and identifying the tasks that have the lowest risk and the highest value)
5. refine/estimate product backlog (clarify the size of task in something other than hours, and identify the standards and tests we must meet for the task to be considered done)
6. Sprint planning: Measure the velocity of each sprint and try to increase it each sprint. Decide on a clear sprint goal for each upcoming iteration.
7. Make the work transparent and visible to everyone (such as a scrumboard with to do, doing, and done columns. I've tried using jira software for sprint planning before and that worked okay)
8. Ensure there is a daily 15 minute standup or scrum. Any pair problem solving can take place after the meeting rather than during it
9. Sprint review or demo to show progress. These meetings are traditionally open to anyone interested.
retrospective - identify a kaizen (process improvement as well as acceptance tests)
10. Start next sprint cycle

**My thoughts about the book**

* The theme of basing a system off of how people actually work, rather than how they say they work (waterfall versus agile). This helps scale down the process of having to continuously recreate goals and project flow charts.

* SCRUM comes from the pile of rugby players who are working to move the ball down the field which emulates the principles of "careful alignment, unity of purpose, and clarity of goal". The author takes lots of inspiration from the NZ All Blacks who are famous for the start of game hauka. The team’s purpose elevates them beyond just a team and instead a group of people working towards a goal which gives them a higher efficiency and spirit.

* Many of the examples in this book boast absolutely incredible boosts in efficiency once they start employing the SCRUM methods in this book. Examples of 75% fewer team members with increases of 80% in efficiency which is frankly, bonkers. 

* The structure of a brief stand up and production meeting where you only need to report out on deliverables makes a lot of sense towards keeping pointless meeting time lower.

**A few of the Practices Detailed in the Method**

* There's also the question of what we prioritize- he mentions that in software, 80% of the value is in 20% of the code. What I take from this is that we have to focus on the right tasks, the most valuable ones, and then as he says later in the book we need to finish tasks to completion. So when we pick the 20% of code that will give us most of our value, to work on those features to completion.

* The story about the robots in the lab that learned to walk for the first time every time they walked was nice

* Create Plan Do Act (do lots of small experiments throughout a teams growth to find new habits, strategies, approaches, etc. that work)

* He told the story of the scrum team manager at salesforce who said that if her scrum teams are identifying with the product they are working on then she's happy and if they identify more with their specialty, then she knows she has more work to do with them.

* He also spent a bit of time talking about how throwing more people at a problem often makes it worse and that very large groups often do less than smaller groups because of the human brain's limitations

* He talks about focus, and minimizing distractions because there is a cost to context switching. He also talks about minimizing 'half-done' things, and that the best time to solve a problem or fix a bug is right when it comes up.
