---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

**Technical Skills**

The main tools we are using in this project are Observable Notebook with D3 and Vega-Lite. The dataset we are curating is stored in excel on googledocs.

“Observable notebook is an online collaborative real time JavaScript environment, where developers and analysts can load data, build widgets, and play with various displays to gain insight. The notebooks are composed of cells, that contain either expressions, or blocks of code. These cells can be run out of order, so the environment is highly reactive. In cells, users can do things like declare variables, import data and create objects with it, and create functions. You can learn more about observable [here](https://observablehq.com/@observablehq/documentation).

D3 is a JavaScript librabry that allows document manipulation based on data input. It works with HTML, CSS, and SVG, and DOM manipulation. D3 is great for widget elements that have interaction and animation. You can learn more about D3 [here](https://d3js.org/).

Vega-Lite is a format for working on visualization designs. Vega-Lite uses JSON, and generates views with HTML5 Canvas or SVG. Learn more about Vega-Lite [here](https://d3js.org/).”

Most of the skill development will be done by working through pre recorded videos of Prof. John Alexis Guerra Gomez from his class, Information Visualization Course,  Master in Data Science, UC Berkeley, and by creating the notebook being taught in the videos. These skills will then be practice in paired programing with my research partner, Sommer Harris, and in meeting with Prof. Guerra.

I have also been working through the tutorials in [this website](https://d3-graph-gallery.com/index.html) which has an impressive gallery of D3 example graphs.
