---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---

**Project Conclusion**

First, I’ll go through some of the goals I had set for myself in the beginning of the project:

*As I do not yet have research experience within the computer science field, this is a great first opportunity to see what type of work will be a good fit for me in the future.* <br>  

This program did a good job providing me access to a computer science research experience. Between meetings with both of my advisors and the hands-on experience gained, it has definitely sparked my interest in pursuing a phd. Though I don’t imagine it would be in exactly the same area of work, I have thoroughly enjoyed my work in the data visualization field this summer.<br>   

*Since I have the benefit of working on this project with someone I have previous group experience with, I’m additionally excited for the collaborative aspects of this work.*<br>  

From paired programming for graph debugging, to working through D3 tutorial together, bi weekly goals and check in meetings, and finally writing up the paper, the collaborative aspect of this project was a big boon for both of us. It really helped to have a teammate who was learning the skills in conjunction with me so that we could commiserate and collaborate depending on what the day needed.<br>  

*The introduction to new sets of technical skills is always a hurdle to overcome on new projects, but when the outcome is something of personal interest, these are welcome challenges.* <br>  
 
As predicted in the beginning of the summer, the technical skills were the biggest hurdle. It was absolutely a fun and engaging project to tackle, however. The timing felt too short to truly have gotten our teeth into the meat of where Prof. John imagines this research to one day be, but I am excited to continue using Observable and D3 on my own personal projects.
 
Final Thoughts
 
* The biggest challenge truly turned out to be scheduling. 10 weeks flies by when you have as much to do as we did. Thankfully, Sommer and I were able to meet consistently which kept us focused and involved, but I’m sure we all wished we had more time. This is of course always an aspect of project management and in hindsight, I’m even more grateful for having read SCRUM in the beginning.
 
* I have already begun building notebooks with old datasets generated in my undergraduate research. It’s been insightful to both recreate old figures in this new setting and also to apply some new, interactive features which I did not have the knowledge to do previously. Sending off some of these new findings to my old lab advisors has absolutely been one of the highlighting outcomes. 
 
* I’m grateful to DREAM for funding this summer work. It has made me very excited to continue to stay in touch with many of the peers and advisors I met this summer and also to see how I can use these new skills moving forward both in my final semesters at NEU and also afterwards and onwards. 
