---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---

**Visualization Practice**

In this blog entry I’ve highlighted some of the graphs created while exploring the data and practicing new D3 skills. The first scatterplot is customizable with a drop down menu to select the x axis, y axis, fill class, and radius class.

<iframe width="100%" height="860" frameborder="0"
src="https://observablehq.com/embed/@nolenbelle/learning-with-the-ai-data?cells=viewof+timeplot%2Cviewof+x_axis%2Cviewof+y_axis%2Cviewof+fill%2Cviewof+r"></iframe>

We then added in a feature to select the data included in the scatter plot using the navio tool. Now the chart will only display the selected data.

<iframe width="100%" height="1213" frameborder="0"
src="https://observablehq.com/embed/@nolenbelle/learning-with-the-ai-data?cells=viewof+timeplot%2Cviewof+x_axis%2Cviewof+y_axis%2Cviewof+fill%2Cviewof+r%2Cviewof+selected"></iframe>

Then for experimentation with timelines, we plotted the occurrences on a flat line. Though you get less time data, it shows the increased frequency of examples over time and when we see different occurrences of the various subclasses.

<iframe width="100%" height="246" frameborder="0"
src="https://observablehq.com/embed/@nolenbelle/learning-with-the-ai-data?cells=viewof+flatplot"></iframe>

We then added a y axis to the previous chart in order to space out the data and see more of the incidents. We also added in the feature of both dates of incident for each occurence- the date when the algorithm was implemented and the date when it was discovered or first reported on. This served as a good look into the current state of our data because when we chose the actual impact measure as our y axis under the assumptions that we would see the impacted populations increase over time. Unfortunately, we then see that most of our y axis data is as of yet underrated and the values are therefore currently set to 0. So while this is not currently an informative chart, it was a very helpful coding practice

<iframe width="100%" height="476" frameborder="0"
src="https://observablehq.com/embed/@nolenbelle/learning-with-the-ai-data?cells=viewof+badDataTime"></iframe>


Finally I’ve included our raw data table here for reference.

<iframe width="100%" height="350" frameborder="0"
src="https://observablehq.com/embed/@nolenbelle/learning-with-the-ai-data?cells=viewof+rawData"></iframe>
