---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

**Opportunities between AI and Visualization**

The highlight of this workshop was another very interesting conference with more details linked [here](https://rouxevents.northeastern.edu/OppsAIVis). This 1.5 day workshop brings AI and Vis researchers and practitioners together to share their experiences and explore opportunities across Vis and AI.

About the workshop:

“AI and Visualization are siloed communities, yet there are many ways in which visualization systems can be improved with the assistance of AI, and many ways AI can be made more transparent and interactive via visualization interfaces.

The workshop will take place at the Roux Institute of Northeastern University in Portland, Maine and will include short lightning talks, panels and hands-on activities, as well as informal social gatherings.

The workshop aims to

     • identify opportunities for collaborations
      • build a research agenda at the intersection of Vis and AI
     • develop a common language and awareness of each other's work and strengths
      • encourage a great time with new colleagues and old friends!”

This was another very engaging and relevant conference. The interchange between different panelists who came from either end of the disciplines (data visualization and AI) was very interesting. There are many ways in which the two overlap and also many methods of using either approach as a tool in the other discipline.

Many of the visualization researchers touched on different common perception biases which can misrepresent or muddle data. These are of special interest to me as I’ve always been drawn towards careers in science communication. A common theme across the speakers was the need to know the end product, user, or domain and to build consciously and intentionally around that goal.
