---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---

**DREAM Program Academic Advisor**

As part of the DREAM program, we are each assigned two academic advisors. One advisor is for the academic, research aspect of the program while the other is career, phd advisor. This week’s highlight was meeting with my career advisor and the affiliated cohort group.

My career advisor for the summer is Dr. Tom Williams, and his website can be found [here](https://people.mines.edu/twilliams/). He is an associate professor of computer science at the Colorado School of Mines, and he directs the Mines Interactive Robotics Research Lab. Since he is someone who studies human computer interactions, I of course had to ask about the robot in 2015 which was going to hitchhike across the country on the goodwill of the people but was prompt destroyed in philly, [news story here](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation-now/2015/08/03/hitchhiking-robot-destroyed-philadelphia-ending-cross-country-trek/31051589/). He said this is a common example in pop culture though truly a sad one as well.


**A Few Takeaways**

* This meeting was enjoyable and helpful! It was great to get a career perspective from someone with an outside point of view. 

* Staying in academia does have an appeal to me, but the applications of phds can be very narrow in focus. I would be interested in pursuing a phd path, but only in very specific circumstances. For me, it seems to make more sense to have a few years of industry experience in order to better understand the work which most excites me before committing to further academia.

* Tom highlighted the benefits of the academic community of researchers. Hearing stories of conferences and friends made through assisting each other on research was very uplifting. 

* The reading, writing, literature side of research was presented to us with a word of caution. Tom wanted to be very clear about the reading requirements which he warned may be unexpected for some. This however was part of my undergraduate research and is for me one of the exciting aspects.

* He shared his interest in Human Robot Interaction (where robots and psychology meet). I am taking a human computer interaction course this fall and really enjoyed the preview into some research aspects of the field.
