---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

**Literature Review and Technical Paper Write Up**

I’ve included our final report here though it is also linked from the front page of this site as well.

[My Final Report](files/finalreport.pdf)

The literature review and paper write up was the most familiar part of this summer process for both myself and my research partner, Sommer. I headed our literature review portion. The first wave was spent by using google scholar to just find papers in broad strokes with key words such as: “data visualization research”, “perception bias”, “unethical AI”, “AI visualization”, “visualization best practice”. This netted around 100 papers. By skimming the abstracts, these were then weeded down to around 50 papers. With further quick skimming, we then got the papers down to the 30 or so works which we would include in our paper. 

I then read each paper and sorted them into the categories we would need for our final paper: introduction/background, various forms of bias in visualization research, examples of how data visualization research is used across disciplines. I take notes on how to reference each paper for the paper, and then I write up the rough draft of our technical paper from our notes.

This was enjoyable work. It is always interesting to see the work coming out of a field. I was especially interested in the perception bias work. I’ve always had an interest in science communication fields and the best practices for visual communication were of particular interest to me. 

There is also always the added satisfaction of seeing the summer work come together. Our final paper was a good synthesis of the data we worked with, some of the skills we learned, and a literature review of the publications in this field which were relevant to our summer project.

I’ve included here the first pass through our reference list as it currently stands though we may add more in the final weeks of redrafting our paper.

References
[1] A. D. Banasiewic. Evidence-based decision-making: How to leverage available data and avoid cognitive biases. Routledge, Taylor
Francis Group., 2019.

[2] E. Bendoly. Fit, bias, and enacted sensemaking in data visualization: Frameworks for continuous development in operations and
supply chain management analytics. Journal of Business Logistics, 37:6–17, 3 2016.

[3] D. Borland,W.Wang, J. Zhang, J. Shrestha, and D. Gotz. Selection bias tracking and detailed subset comparison for high-dimensional
data. 6 2019.

[4] D. Borland, J. Zhang, S. Kaul, and D. Gotz. Selection-bias-corrected visualization via dynamic reweighting. 7 2020.

[5] J. V. Braga and T. B. P. Silva. Revista brasileira de design da informac¸ ˜ao / brazilian journal of information design s˜ao paulo—v

[6] S. Bresciani and M. J. Eppler. The risks of visualization a classification of disadvantages associated with graphic representations of
information, 2008.

[7] S. Bresciani and M. J. Eppler. The risks of visualization. Identit¨at und Vielfalt der Kommunikations-wissenschaft (2009), pages
165–178, 2009.

[8] S. Campbell. The rhetoric of pathos in visualization, 2018.

[9] M. F. Dahlstrom. Using narratives and storytelling to communicate science with nonexpert audiences. Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences, 11(supplement4) : 13614 − −13620, 2009.

[10] P. Fox and J. Hendler. Changing the equation on scientific data visualization, 2 2011.

[11] I. M. Golebiowska and A. Coltekin. Rainbow dash: Intuitiveness, interpretability and memorability of the rainbow color scheme in
visualization. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, 28:2722–2733, 7 2022.

[12] D. Gotz, S. Sun, and N. Cao. Adaptive contextualization: Combating bias during high-dimensional visualization and data selection. volume
07-10-March-2016, pages 85–95. Association for Computing Machinery, 3 2016.

[13] E. Hehman and S. Y. Xie. Doing better data visualization. Advances in Methods and Practices in Psychological Science, 4(4):1–118, 2009.

[14] A. Hundt, W. Agnew, V. Zeng, S. Kacianka, and M. Gombolay. Robots enact malignant stereotypes. pages 743–756. Association for
Computing Machinery (ACM), 6 2022.

[15] L. F. Klein. Feminist data visualization, 2020.

[16] S. Laato, M. Tiainen, A. N. Islam, and M. M¨antym¨aki. How to explain ai systems to end users: a systematic literature review and research
agenda. Internet Research, 32(7):1–31, 2022.

[17] C. Lin and M. Thornton. Fooled by beautiful data: Visualization aesthetics bias trust in science, news, and social media, 2021.

[18] A. V. Pandey, A. Manivannan, O. Nov, M. Satterthwaite, and E. Bertini. The persuasive power of data visualization, 2014.

[19] I. D. Raji, A. Smart, R. N. White, M. Mitchell, T. Gebru, B. Hutchinson, J. Smith-Loud, D. Theron, and P. Barnes. Closing the ai
accountability gap: Defining an end-to-end framework for internal algorithmic auditing. In Proceedings of the 2020 conference on fairness,
accountability, and transparency, pages 33–44, 2020.

[20] K. B. Schloss, C. C. Gramazio, A. T. Silverman, M. L. Parker, and A. S.Wang. Mapping color to meaning in colormap data visualizations.
IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, 25:810–819, 1 2019.

[21] S. C. Sibrel, R. Rathore, L. Lessard, and K. B. Schloss. The relation between color and spatial structure for interpreting colormap data
visualizations. Journal of Vision, 20:1–20, 11 2020.

[22] U.N. Making data meaningful part 4: How to improve statistical literacy: A guide for statistical organizations. In United Nations (Vol. 5),
2014.

[23] E. Wall, G. Tech, J. Stasko, and A. Endert. Toward a design space for mitigating cognitive bias in vis, 2019.
